This guide will be focusing primarily on mechanics. That is, I'm assuming whoever is reading this knows what D&D is as a concept and is just learning the system for the first time. To quickly summarize, D&D is a collaborative storytelling game, mixed with RPG elements. The "DM" plays all the npcs and creates the world, and the players play a specific personality and character that lives in that world.

**The DM is not your enemy.** I've seen some players try and hide facts from their DMs cause they're worried it'll be used against them, or strategize without them present so they can't, again, use the information against the party. This is not a good thing. All in all, the DM is playing with you to tell a story; specifically, *your* character's stories. Trying their best to kill your characters is not a good way to tell that story. 

With that preface out of the way, on to how to actually play.

---

Nearly the entirety of D&D 3.5's mechanics revolve around one simple mechanic.

Roll 1d20 (One Twenty Sided Die) and add the relevant modifier(s).

To attack an opponent, roll 1d20 and add your attack bonus. To jump over a chasm, roll 1d20 and add your Jump skill modifier. To resist a magical assault on your mind or body, roll 1d20 and add the relevant save modifier. To break down a door, roll 1d20 and add your strength modifier. Etc, etc, etc.

If the dice is not specified when your making a roll of some sort, always default to a d20.

Occasionally, the game will ask you to roll a different dice instead of a d20, but the overall mechanics stay the same. Say your rolling your Greataxe's damage, you'd roll 1d12 and add your strength modifier.

---

This game does have some simple vocabulary and acronyms to know before playing.
- AC – Your AC, or Armor Class, determines how well you can avoid being hit. It includes the type of armor or shield you use, how well you can dodge blows, how tough your skin is (in some cases), and a number of other factors. The higher your AC, the less often you’ll get hit.
- BAB – Your BAB, or Base Attack Bonus, determines how well you can wield weapons. A high BAB allows you to hit your target more often. Your BAB is determined by the class you select and increases as you level up.
- DM – The Dungeon Master, or DM, builds and runs the world around the PCs, creating the adventures that make the game fun.
- PC – Player Characters, or PCs, are the characters controlled by the players. They are obviously affected by the DMs world but should not be controlled by the DM.
- Saves – Your ability to shrug off attacks on your body and mind is represented by your saves. Your fortitude save (fort) helps you avoid poison, disease, and being turned into a frog. Your reflex save (ref) helps you avoid being caught in explosions or trapped under avalanches. Your will save (will) helps you avoid mind control and telepathy.
- Skills – Skills represent your ability to interact with the world in (by-and-large) non-violent ways. They include your ability to negotiate and bluff, to open locks, to pick pockets, you understand complex concepts and recall facts, to jump, climb, balance, and tumble, and a host of other things.
- Initiative – Rolled at the start of combat to decide turn order, usually equal to your Dexterity modifier.
---


Time for actual mechanics. First, ability scores. These are the 6 central stats that affect nearly every aspect of your character.

- Strength – This ability measures the power of your character’s muscle. Affects damage and melee attack rolls, certain strength related skills like swimming or jumping, or other miscellaneous things like tripping opponents or grappling.
- Dexterity – This ability measures how agile, nimble, and accurate your character is. Affects your AC (making you harder to hit), your ability to use ranged weapons, some skills, your initiative (turn order) and your reflex save.
- Constitution – This ability measures how tough your character is. It affects how many HP you have, your fortitude save, and how well you can concentrate amid distractions.
- Intelligence – This ability measures your character’s intellect. It affects how many skill points you have to allocate, how many languages you speak, and how well you can analyze and recall information. If you are a wizard, it is also important for your spell-casting ability.
- Wisdom – This ability measures how aware and perceptive your character is. Your character's instincts, more or less. It affects your will save and your ability to observe and perceive (ex: tracking down animals using the "Survival" skill). If you are a cleric or druid, it is also important for your spell-casting ability.
- Charisma – This ability measures the force of your character’s personality. It affects your ability to persuade or fool others. If you are a sorcerer, it is also important for your spell-casting ability.

Usually, ability scores are rolled after the person selects a class and race.

---

Race selection is rather easy. In the Player's Handbook, you'll find a list of races to choose one. Find one that looks interesting for the character you want to play, and flip to the corresponding page. It'll say what stats or adjustments your character recieves for playing as said race there.

Class selection is mostly the same. A brief description of each class follows.

- Barbarian – One of the primary meat shield classes, barbarians are marked by their speed and their ability to rage, boosting their power and toughness. Barbarians rely on high HP to survive combat rather than heavy armor.
- Bard – Often highlighted as the classic 5th wheel class, a bard has some arcane casting ability, significant skill ability (especially social skills), can wear some armor, and has some combat skill. They are also able to use their musical abilities to assist their comrades. If built correctly, bards can fill almost any party role.
- Cleric – Clerics are divine casters and some of the strongest healers in the game. They can also wear heavy armor and have substantial buffing capability and can serve as a meat shield.
- Druid – Druids are divine casters focused on the power of nature. They can heal (though not quite as well as clerics), buff, summon allies, and deal damage. They also have the ability to assume the forms of various animals, giving them substantial combat abilities and enabling them to serve as meat shields.
- Fighter – Perhaps the archetypal meat shield class, a fighter has high BAB, high hit points, and access to all types of armor. They have the ability to customize their fighting style and become skilled in a number of types of combat.
- Monk – Monks are mobile fighters who rely on unarmed combat. They gain a number of abilities related to this role and have perhaps the highest saves in the game. They also excel at skills related to movement and acrobatics. However, they aren’t quite tough enough to fill the meat shield role and are perhaps best suited to the 5th wheel or skill monkey role.
- Paladin – Holy warriors whose skills are powered by their faith, paladins are formidable combatants well able to fill the meat shield role. Their limited healing abilities give them staying power in addition to their more conventional defenses. They gain the ability to smite evil foes, making them especially skilled at combating evil.
- Ranger – Rangers are martial characters focused on wilderness environs. They gain many druid-like abilities to interact with nature and excel at tracking and fighting on the move, especially when fighting their favored enemies. They have significant skill ability and can chose to focus on ranged combat or fighting with a blade in each hand. They also gain very limited divine spellcasting ability.
- Rogue – Perhaps the archetypal skill monkey class, rogues have unparalleled access to skills and are the only standard class with the ability to disarm traps. They can also be formidable combatants, especially when fighting distracted or surprised foes.
- Sorcerer – Sorcerers are powerful arcane casters, though they have little conventional combat ability. They gain their magic through innate talent and have access to a limited number of spells that they can cast whenever they want (within limits).
- Wizard – Wizards gain their arcane power through study and knowledge. They carry ponderous books of spells and must prepare each spell they cast at the beginning of the day. They have access to more spells than a sorcerer and are generally more versatile, but they can cast fewer spells per day and are limited by the spells they choose to prepare in the morning.

None of them fit for what you're going for? Talk to your DM. D&D 3.5 has so many supplementary books that in my 5 years playing, I haven't been unable to find a class I can't at the very least flavor to fit for what I want to play. The only problematic part about using a class not apart of the Player's Handbook is that they're almost always more complicated.

---

A feat represents a significant ability your character has. It might be increased skill with a certain weapon or the ability to strike more forcefully at the expense of accuracy or it might be an innate mental toughness that helps you overcome attacks on your mind, as examples.

You gain 1 feat at 1st level, one at 3rd, and every 3 levels afterwards (6, 9, 12, etc.). Certain races and classes may get additional feats.

---

Initiative is a simple concept. At the start of combat, every enemy, ally, and PC roll and add their initiative bonus, equal to their Dexterity + any miscellaneous bonus's (from feats like Improved Initiative or class or racial abilities)

---

Next up is determining attack and save modifiers. For the most part, you're just inputting stats you've already rolled, or which are listed in your class table.

Your attack modifier is the sum of the following:  

- Your BAB (determined by your class) + your strength modifier for melee attacks or your dexterity modifier for ranged attacks (though in some cases, other ability modifiers will be added or substituted) + any size modifiers (if you are playing a small race, for example, you gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls) + any other modifiers (certain feats, high quality or magical equipment, class or racial abilities, and other effects can grant bonuses or penalties to attack rolls)
- Ex: A 1st level human fighter wielding a masterwork sword with a strength modifier of +3 would have a melee attack bonus of +5 (+1 for BAB, +3 for Strength, +1 for his masterwork sword).

Your save modifiers are the sum of the following:  

- Your base save (determined by your class) + the relevant ability modifier (constitution for fortitude saves, dexterity for reflex saves, and wisdom for will saves) + any modifiers from equipment + any other modifiers (racial, class-based, etc.)
- Ex: A 1st level human fighter with a constitution modifier of +2 and a wisdom bonus of +0 would have a fortitude save of +4 (+2 base save, +2 from his constitution modifier) and a will save of +0 (+0 base save, +0 from his wisdom modifier).

---

You acquire a total number of "Ranks" which you choose to allocate to your various skills during character creation and level up. It specifies in your class description how many skill ranks you get per level, ranging from 2 to 8, with 1st level granting 4x whatever your class specifies.

There's a limit to how many ranks you can put in a particular skill, equal to your level + 3.

---

Time to purchase equipment. It should specify in your class how much gold you get (Ex: Gold: 2d4). Roll the relevant dice, and times that by ten. For this specific campaign you also get 9000 extra starting gold, for being level 5. Weapons and armor are important, and with most of your gold your going to be looking at the available magic items (Located both in the Player's Handbook and Dungeon Master's Guide).

---

If you're a class that knows spellcasting, you'll have to pick your spells. Your class will specify how many spells you have of what level, and the "Spells" section of the PHB (and all other books with spells) specify what class can use those particular spells.

And after that, all that's left is filling in the relevant information for things like AC, Weapon Attack Bonus, Languages, and other miscellaneous things.