"The walls are lined with stone bricks as the harsh torchlight flickers back and forth. This place looks... old, to say the least. Moss and other vegetation are peeking through the apparent cracks in the wall. It looks like a... mausoleum. Probably built a century ago at the least. 5 marble caskets lay on the edge walls, significantly more polished than the rest of the room. There's name plates on them, but a small layer of dirt covers the writing. A stone door seems to be at the front of the room, unopened." If a player reveals the name plates, they read: "Happy", "Blaze", "Nova", "Leofric", and "Elizabeth"

Pushing past the stone door (No check), reveals a room, much of the same decor, or lack thereof, of the previous. No caskets this time, though there seems to be 3, glowing stone doors along the north, west, and east walls. A lecturn lies in the center of the room, with a tome attached. Written in infernal: "I am not here to kill you. This island's decay has become to much. I need to test your skills. Finish the chambers; then we'll talk."
The left most door shines a soft blue light, and ordains a carved in symbol. (History DC 15, used primarily by the ancients before the island was enveloped by the barrier, representing logic, study, knowledge, etcetera). Carved into the door is also the words "**scientia potentia est**" 
(Ski-EN-ti-ah po-TEN-ti-ah EST) (Knowledge is power). These are, as indictated by the latin, the [[Knowledge Trials]].
The rightmost door glows a crackling, vibrant red, with another carved symbol. (History DC 15, used by the ancients to represent combat, training, danger, etc.). Carved into the door is also the words: "**coniunctis viribus**" (With connected strength.) These are the [[Combat Trials]].
The middle door, larger than the rest, has two keyholes near its center, one outlined in blue, the other, red.
